If you found a one-of-a-kind prototype of a revolutionary new mobile phone lying on a public beach, what would you do with it? What would be the consequences of your chosen action?

 Since theft of found property is a criminal offense, I would act to return the prototype to the manufacturer if the need arises. First, I would sell information about the prototype to the media, and then I would try to profit by renting the prototype to a rival company. However, this practice will be regulated by various laws.

Copyright Infringement: Providing a prototype to others is tantamount to infringing the intellectual property rights contained in the prototype. This is copyright infringement, and you will be held liable.

Misappropriation of Trade Secrets: Under the Unfair Competition Act, improperly obtaining a company's confidential information is illegal (McDonagh & Witz, 2011). Providing a stolen prototype to a competitor constitutes misappropriation of trade secrets. The company receiving the information may be held liable for the same.

Does the value of a parcel of land come only from the profits it can generate? If not, what makes land valuable?

Three years ago, my grandmother's house was sold and demolished to make way for a stranger's new, magnificent home. Land passed down from generation to generation brings priceless value to people. I still cry in front of that house, remembering my grandmother. Memories and connections with people are factors that determine the value of land.

Does it ever have any value that is not recognized by the law? Actively research and address issues of sustainability in this context.

This is a story from my childhood in the countryside. Japanese crayfish, an endangered species, lived in a pond on land that had not been sold for decades. As an adult, I heard that the local government was desperately searching for a habitat for the Japanese crayfish. That land for sale had become a parking lot. The land had no legal value, but it was important to the country's ecosystem, which the American crayfish had invaded entirely.

What is the role of governments in regulating the use of any form of property? Why do laws work so well to maintain standard uses, and what would be alternative ways to set boundaries on what businesses could do?

Property is difficult to define. I have wanted to sue the current occupants because they destroyed my memories of my grandmother. The law recognizes property rights but, unfortunately, does not recognize the right to my memories as a legitimate right. What people value is different. The discussion would always continue if we used everyone's value as a ruler. Laws exist to reconcile such differences in values. It isn't easy to find a value that everyone agrees on, but it is inevitable that discussion will not proceed without a standard.


What are some limitations of current law (choose any country of interest) in terms of protecting the use of public and private property from a sustainability perspective?

People will pay a lot for land to build a fancy house, but they will not pay for land to keep crawfish alive. Even if the law recognizes the value of biodiversity, supply and demand will not work that way. Finding value in biodiversity and sustainability is a matter of finding value that neither the law nor society has yet recognized.

Lenzi et al. (2023) emphasize that sustainability has diverse values as well. There are many values that the law does not recognize, such as the water and air provided by ecosystems, the spiritual healing provided by culture, and the value of the very existence of living things. Their interesting argument is that such natural values are related to justice. They categorized justice into three categories.

Distributive justice: ensuring that the blessings and burdens of nature are fairly distributed among people.
Procedural justice: creating mechanisms allowing all parties to participate in decision-making.
Recognition justice: Respect different values and cultures and make diverse opinions heard.
They argue that we can rethink sustainability by incorporating these forms of justice into our laws. Specific initiatives include improving legal systems, strengthening law enforcement, raising public awareness, and international cooperation. Society creates values and laws that are necessary to build a sustainable society.

Conclusion

 Laws are standards to coordinate what people value. However, values change daily, and the need for a sustainable society is increasing daily. The imbalance between economic value and sustainability is a challenge. Still, law can help achieve sustainability by increasing the broader value of justice, as Lenzi et al. argue.



Reference

Lenzi, D., Balvanera, P., Arias-Arévalo, P., Eser, U., Guibrunet, L., Martin, A., Muraca, B., & Pascual, U. (2023). Justice, sustainability, and the diverse values of nature: Why they matter for biodiversity conservation. Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability, 64, 101353. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosust.2023.101353

McDonagh, M. L. & Witz, J. M. . (2011). Unfair Competition and Trade Secrets | Littler Mendelson P.C.. Retrieved on Dec 17, 2024, from https://www.littler.com/practice-areas/unfair-competition-and-trade-secrets









----------------------------
If you found a one-of-a-kind prototype of a revolutionary new mobile phone lying on a public beach, what would you do with it? What would be the consequences of your chosen action?

拾得物の横領は刑事罰に問われるため、私はいざとなったら試作機をメーカーに返せるように行動します。まずメディアに試作機の情報を売り、さらにライバル会社に試作機を貸し出して利益を得ようとするでしょう。しかしこの行為はさまざまな法により規制されているようです。

Theft: 拾得物を持ち帰った時点で窃盗になります。
Conversion: 他人の財産を自分のものにすることは横領に当たります。
Copyright Infringement: 試作機を他人に提供することは、試作機に含まれる知的財産権を侵害することと同等の意味を持ちます。これは著作権侵害であり、法的責任を問われます。
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets: Unfair Competition Actでは、企業の秘密情報を不正に取得することは違法行為とされています。盗難された試作機を競合他社に提供することは、企業秘密の横流しに当たります。受け取った会社も同様の法的責任を問われるでしょう。

Does the value of a parcel of land come only from the profits it can generate? If not, what makes land valuable?
三年前に売却された私の祖母の家は解体され、知らない人の新しい立派な家になりました。先祖代々受け継がれてきた土地などは、価格にならない価値を人々にもたらします。私は今でもその家の前で、祖母のことを思い出し涙します。思い出や人との繋がりは、土地の価値を決定する要素の一つです。

Does it ever have any value that is not recognized by the law? Actively research and address issues of sustainability in this context.
幼少期に過ごした田舎の話です。全く買い手がつかない売地の池に、ニホンザリガニという絶滅危惧種が住んでいました。大人になってから、その自治体がニホンザリガニの生息地を必死で探していたことを知りました。あの売地は駐車場になっていました。あの土地には法律上の価値がありませんでしたが、アメリカザリガニに侵食され尽くした日本の生態系にとっては重要な場所でした。

What is the role of governments in regulating the use of any form of property? Why do laws work so well to maintain standard uses, and what would be alternative ways to set boundaries on what businesses could do?
財産という定義は難しいものです。私は祖母との思い出を壊されたという理由で、今の住人を訴えたいと思ったことがあります。法律は所有権を認めていますが、残念ながら思い出権を正当な権利として認めていません。人が価値を見出すものはそれぞれ異なります。万人の価値観を定規にしたら、話が噛み合わない争いばかりになるでしょう。法律は、そのような価値観の違いを調整するために存在しています。全ての人が納得する価値を見出すことは難しいですが、基準がなければ議論が進まないことは確かです。

What are some limitations of current law (choose any country of interest) in terms of protecting the use of public and private property from a sustainability perspective?
人々は立派な家を建てるための土地には大金を払いますが、ザリガニを生かすだけの土地にはお金を払いません。たとえ法律が生物多様性の価値を認めても、需要と供給はそのように動かないでしょう。生物多様性や持続可能性に価値を見出すことは、まだ法律も社会も認めていない価値を見出すことにつながります。

Lenzi et al. は持続可能性にも多様な価値が存在することを強調しています。生態系が提供する水や空気、文化が提供する精神的な癒し、そして生物が存在することそのものの価値など、法律が認めていない価値がたくさんあります。そのような自然の価値が正義と関係しているというのが彼らの興味深い主張です。彼らは正義を3つに分類しました。

分配的正義: 自然の恵みや負担が、人々に公平に分配されるようにする。
手続き的正義: 意思決定プロセスに、すべての関係者が参加できるような仕組みを作る。
認識的正義: 異なる価値観や文化を尊重し、多様な意見を聞き入れる。

これらの正義を法律に取り入れることで、持続可能性を再考できると彼らは主張します。法制度の整備、法執行の強化、市民意識の向上、国際的な協力などが具体的な取り組みの例です。社会が法律と共に価値を作っていく、このプロセスは持続可能な社会を築くために必要なものだと思います。

Conclusion
法律は、人々が価値を見出すものを調整するための基準です。しかし価値は日々変わっていきますし、持続可能な社会の必要性も日々高まっています。経済的価値と持続可能性の不均衡は課題だが、Lenzi et al.が主張する通り、正義の幅広い価値を高めることで、法律が持続可能性を実現する手助けになると私も信じています。

Reference

