Part 1
Introduce yourself.
Hold your ID in front of the camera for 5 to 10 seconds.

Hello, my name is Yasunori Kuji. I am a student at the University of the People, and I am currently studying Computer Science of the Master's program. I appologize my delay, and wearing pajama yet. I've been in bed since last week with a cold and gastroenteritis. I'm sure you'll hear me coughing in this video, but please forgive me. Here is my passport. I am from Japan, and I am currently living in Japan. I am excited to be here and to be able to share my thoughts and ideas with you. Thank you for having me.

Part 2

For the part 2, I choose the case 1 and 4.
For the case 1, I would recommend my subordinate to research the customer's financial status and his or her personality thoroughly. If the customer has a good status, I would authorize the loan. If the customer has a bad financial status, I would deny the loan based on the financial facts.

For the case 4, using the gut instinct is not a good idea to make a decision. Again, I would recommend my subordinate to research the customer's financial status. Every decision should be based on the facts and data, not on the gut instinct. I like the word, "In God we trust, all others bring data." Data driven decision is the best way for the loan approval. I believe that by basing my actions on DATA, my behavior will remain consistent and I will gain the trust of my colleagues!

That is all for today. Thank you for watching.


Continue recording yourself on video, and respond to the following:

Every manager has different skills and specialties of expertise.  It is quite possible that you could be in a situation where you see something that someone else does not see, especially if they are working under you with less education or experience than you. Choose two of the four cases below and respond to the following:

If a loan officer working under you recommends a loan to a customer, describe
(A) when you would authorize that loan, and
(B) when you would deny the loan in each of the following cases and give your rationale.

1. You disagree with your subordinate because you do not think restaurants are good investments in general, so you have a bad feeling about this customer's ability to repay the loan based on your experience with the market rather than any financial facts.
2. You disagree with your subordinate because you think medical operations are high risk for legal problems, so you have a bad feeling about this customer's ability to repay the loan based on your experience with the law rather than any financial facts.
3. You disagree with your subordinate because you think members of their family are business failures, so you have a bad feeling about this customer's ability to repay the loan based on your experience with social history rather than any financial facts.
4. You disagree with your subordinate because you just have a bad feeling about this customer's ability to repay the loan based on your gut instinct rather than any financial facts.



